meds.md, before:

# Meds

## Specific Agents

- [Meds](#meds)
  - [Specific Agents](#specific-agents)
    - [DMSO](#dmso)
    - [Fenbendazole / FenBen](#fenbendazole--fenben)
    - [FOLFIRINIOX](#folfiriniox)
    - [Ipi-Novo](#ipi-novo)
    - [Ivermectin](#ivermectin)
    - [OLAPARIB](#olaparib)
    - [pegfilgrastim-apgf](#pegfilgrastim-apgf)
    - [Serrapeptase](#serrapeptase)
  - [Metabolic Approach](#metabolic-approach)
  - [Providers and Pharmacies](#providers-and-pharmacies)

### DMSO

- <https://open.substack.com/pub/amidwesterndoctor/p/the-remarkable-history-and-safety?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=rbl8l>

### Fenbendazole / FenBen

- Dig deeper and subscribe <https://open.substack.com/pub/fastwell/p/an-odd-cure-for-incurable-cancer?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=rbl8l>

- [The Psychology of Choosing Fenbendazole](https://www.fenbendazole.org/the-psychology-of-choosing-fenbendazole/)
- [Fenbendazole Joe Tippens Protocol: A Step-by-Step Guide (2024)
By Dr. Frank Yap, MD - November 24, 2024](https://www.onedaymd.com/2024/04/fenbendazole-joe-tippens-protocol.html?m=1)
- Dr. John Campbell on YouTube: [Fen ben for cancer?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Q5QjEPGNNg)
- <https://www.fenbendazole.org/>
- Shows up on the FLCCC Protocol as sister-substance Mebendazole, at 100-200mg daily.
- Shows up on [Tippen Protocol](https://mycancerstory.rocks/81-2/) at 222mg daily.
- <https://x.com/MakisMD/status/1845353670407233817?t=RkT_q9eTTufmm1_e46oIFQ&s=19>
- There was a comment on the Seyfried video suggesting that FenBen reduces and manages glutamine.  This needs research.
- Important [paper](./files/Targeting-the-Mitochondrial-Stem-Cell-Connection-in-Cancer-Treatment-JOM-39.3.pdf) on FenBen.
- [Healthline: Can Antiparasitic Drug Fenbendazole Treat Pancreatic Cancer?](https://www.healthline.com/health/pancreatic-cancer/fenbendazole-for-pancreatic-cancer#summary)
- [Life Extension: Against All Odds](https://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2020/1/wellness-profile)
- Jane McLelland
- [European Medicines Agency: CVMP assessment report for Panacur AquaSol](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/variation-report/panacur-aquasol-v-c-2008-x-03-epar-assessment-report-extension_en.pdf)

***

Karl Denninger:  "Only thing for me was/is FenBen(dog dewormer). Im convinced. Hopefully, the 27th cancer doc will say again we see nothing and you have escaped the reaper.

I bought a bag of powder Amazon which came with a 222mg spoon and I sprinkle a heaping spoon of it over my eggs or buttered toast or on melted cheese. No noticeable taste for me. Do this 3 days weekly and take 4 days off. My take on the Joe Tippens protocol."

<https://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?singlepost=4146682>

<https://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?post=251846&page=4>

***

### FOLFIRINIOX

- Fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin

### Ipi-Novo

### Ivermectin

- [Ivermectin Dose for Humans](
https://open.substack.com/pub/brighterworkscanceralternatives/p/ivermetin-dose-for-humans?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=rbl8l)

- [Ivermectin reverses the drug resistance in cancer cells through EGFR/ERK/Akt/NF-κB pathway](https://jeccr.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13046-019-1251-7)

- [The Surprising Potential of Ivermectin Against Cancer: Dr. Kathleen Ruddy](https://rumble.com/v5bp0d9-the-surprising-potential-of-ivermectin-against-cancer-dr.-kathleen-ruddy.html?mref=1bxo9j&mc=69gy3)

- [Is There a Best Ivermectin Dosage for Cancers or Different Cancer Types?](https://www.brightworkresearch.com/is-there-a-best-ivermectin-dosage-for-cancer-or-cancer-types/)

- <https://x.com/MakisMD/status/1828024388580503589?t=ezQB3rqo63oAhGC83EutuA&s=19> "Ivermectin was tested at 2mg/kg/day" -> 190mg per day!  Very high compared to other comments.

- [NIH: The multitargeted drug ivermectin: from an antiparasitic agent to a repositioned cancer drug](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5835698/#b47)

### OLAPARIB

- [Maintenance Olaparib for Germline BRCA-Mutated Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1903387)

### pegfilgrastim-apgf

- "Pegylated recombinant methionyl human cranulocyte colony-stimulating factor deried from e-coli."
- Nasty stuff.  On it and I hate it.

### Serrapeptase

## Metabolic Approach

- [Targeting the Mitochondrial-Stem Cell Connection in Cancer Treatment: A Hybrid Orthomolecular Protocol](https://isom.ca/article/targeting-the-mitochondrial-stem-cell-connection-in-cancer-treatment-a-hybrid-orthomolecular-protocol/)

- [Seyfried:  Can the Mitochondrial Metabolic Theory Explain Better the
Origin and Management of Cancer than Can the Somatic
Mutation Theory?](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8467939/pdf/metabolites-11-00572.pdf)

## Providers and Pharmacies

**NOTE:  These are not researched, validated, or vetted.  You'd be crazy to try them -- just sayin'.

- <https://www.off-scriptrx.com/>

Commit message:

Added TARLATAMAB and liver diet sections.

meds.md, after:

# Meds

## Specific Agents

- [Meds](#meds)
  - [Specific Agents](#specific-agents)
    - [DMSO](#dmso)
    - [Fenbendazole / FenBen](#fenbendazole--fenben)
    - [FOLFIRINIOX](#folfiriniox)
    - [Ipi-Novo](#ipi-novo)
    - [Ivermectin](#ivermectin)
    - [OLAPARIB](#olaparib)
    - [pegfilgrastim-apgf](#pegfilgrastim-apgf)
    - [Serrapeptase](#serrapeptase)
    - [TARLATAMAB](#tarlatamab)
  - [Metabolic Approach](#metabolic-approach)
  - [Providers and Pharmacies](#providers-and-pharmacies)

### DMSO

- <https://open.substack.com/pub/amidwesterndoctor/p/the-remarkable-history-and-safety?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=rbl8l>

### Fenbendazole / FenBen

- Dig deeper and subscribe <https://open.substack.com/pub/fastwell/p/an-odd-cure-for-incurable-cancer?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=rbl8l>

- [The Psychology of Choosing Fenbendazole](https://www.fenbendazole.org/the-psychology-of-choosing-fenbendazole/)
- [Fenbendazole Joe Tippens Protocol: A Step-by-Step Guide (2024)
By Dr. Frank Yap, MD - November 24, 2024](https://www.onedaymd.com/2024/04/fenbendazole-joe-tippens-protocol.html?m=1)
- Dr. John Campbell on YouTube: [Fen ben for cancer?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Q5QjEPGNNg)
- <https://www.fenbendazole.org/>
- Shows up on the FLCCC Protocol as sister-substance Mebendazole, at 100-200mg daily.
- Shows up on [Tippen Protocol](https://mycancerstory.rocks/81-2/) at 222mg daily.
- <https://x.com/MakisMD/status/1845353670407233817?t=RkT_q9eTTufmm1_e46oIFQ&s=19>
- There was a comment on the Seyfried video suggesting that FenBen reduces and manages glutamine.  This needs research.
- Important [paper](./files/Targeting-the-Mitochondrial-Stem-Cell-Connection-in-Cancer-Treatment-JOM-39.3.pdf) on FenBen.
- [Healthline: Can Antiparasitic Drug Fenbendazole Treat Pancreatic Cancer?](https://www.healthline.com/health/pancreatic-cancer/fenbendazole-for-pancreatic-cancer#summary)
- [Life Extension: Against All Odds](https://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2020/1/wellness-profile)
- Jane McLelland
- [European Medicines Agency: CVMP assessment report for Panacur AquaSol](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/variation-report/panacur-aquasol-v-c-2008-x-03-epar-assessment-report-extension_en.pdf)

***

Karl Denninger:  "Only thing for me was/is FenBen(dog dewormer). Im convinced. Hopefully, the 27th cancer doc will say again we see nothing and you have escaped the reaper.

I bought a bag of powder Amazon which came with a 222mg spoon and I sprinkle a heaping spoon of it over my eggs or buttered toast or on melted cheese. No noticeable taste for me. Do this 3 days weekly and take 4 days off. My take on the Joe Tippens protocol."

<https://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?singlepost=4146682>

<https://market-ticker.org/akcs-www?post=251846&page=4>

***

### FOLFIRINIOX

- Fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin

### Ipi-Novo

### Ivermectin

- [Ivermectin Dose for Humans](
https://open.substack.com/pub/brighterworkscanceralternatives/p/ivermetin-dose-for-humans?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=rbl8l)

- [Ivermectin reverses the drug resistance in cancer cells through EGFR/ERK/Akt/NF-κB pathway](https://jeccr.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13046-019-1251-7)

- [The Surprising Potential of Ivermectin Against Cancer: Dr. Kathleen Ruddy](https://rumble.com/v5bp0d9-the-surprising-potential-of-ivermectin-against-cancer-dr.-kathleen-ruddy.html?mref=1bxo9j&mc=69gy3)

- [Is There a Best Ivermectin Dosage for Cancers or Different Cancer Types?](https://www.brightworkresearch.com/is-there-a-best-ivermectin-dosage-for-cancer-or-cancer-types/)

- <https://x.com/MakisMD/status/1828024388580503589?t=ezQB3rqo63oAhGC83EutuA&s=19> "Ivermectin was tested at 2mg/kg/day" -> 190mg per day!  Very high compared to other comments.

- [NIH: The multitargeted drug ivermectin: from an antiparasitic agent to a repositioned cancer drug](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5835698/#b47)

### OLAPARIB

- [Maintenance Olaparib for Germline BRCA-Mutated Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1903387)

### pegfilgrastim-apgf

- "Pegylated recombinant methionyl human cranulocyte colony-stimulating factor deried from e-coli."
- Nasty stuff.  On it and I hate it.

### Serrapeptase

### TARLATAMAB

- [NEJM: Tarlatamab for Patients with Previously Treated Small-Cell Lung Cancer](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa2307980)

## Metabolic Approach

- [Targeting the Mitochondrial-Stem Cell Connection in Cancer Treatment: A Hybrid Orthomolecular Protocol](https://isom.ca/article/targeting-the-mitochondrial-stem-cell-connection-in-cancer-treatment-a-hybrid-orthomolecular-protocol/)

- [Seyfried:  Can the Mitochondrial Metabolic Theory Explain Better the
Origin and Management of Cancer than Can the Somatic
Mutation Theory?](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8467939/pdf/metabolites-11-00572.pdf)

## Providers and Pharmacies

**NOTE:  These are not researched, validated, or vetted.  You'd be crazy to try them -- just sayin'.

- <https://www.off-scriptrx.com/>
