resources.md, before:


# Resources

- [Resources](#resources)
  - [Books](#books)
    - [My Must-Reads](#my-must-reads)
    - [Reading Now](#reading-now)
    - [To Order](#to-order)
    - [Finished](#finished)
    - [Ordered](#ordered)
    - [Not Owned](#not-owned)
  - [People](#people)
  - [Videos and Podcasts](#videos-and-podcasts)
  - [Websites](#websites)
    - [To Check Out](#to-check-out)
    - [Reviewed](#reviewed)
  - [Events](#events)
    - [2024 Metabolic Health Day ( Metabolic Health Institute )](#2024-metabolic-health-day--metabolic-health-institute-)

## Books

### My Must-Reads

- **[Notes from the Valley: A Spiritual Travelogue through Cancer](https://www.amazon.com/Notes-Valley-Spiritual-Travelogue-through/dp/0802412548/)**, Andy McQuitty ( 4.7 / 60 )
  - Fundamentally important book about Christian understanding of mortality, suffering, and the Lord's will.

- **[Beating Cancer With Nutrition:  Using Nutrition and Other Modalities to Improve Quality and Quantity of Life for Medically Treated Cancer Patients](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1735234702/)**, by Patrick Quillin ( 4.6 / 144 )
  - Good references in end notes.  Tons of additional reading.
  - Wide coverage and easy to read in a layout similar to a textbook.
  - Very well organized and easy to refer back to.

- **[The Metabolic Approach to Cancer:  Integrating Deep Nutrition, the Ketogenic Diet, and Nontoxic Bio-Individualized Therapies](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1603586865/)**, by Winters and Kelley ( 4.7 / 1118 )
  - Deep and technical. Some bio-chemistry paragraphs.
  - Worth reading, but more work to read than Quillin's book.

- **[Keto for Cancer: Ketogenic Metabolic Therapy as a Targeted Nutritional Strategy](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1603587012/)**, by Miriam Kalamian EdM MS CNS ( 4.6 / 695 )
  - With a foreword by Dr. Dominic D'Agostino, PhD and contributions from Thomas Seyfried, PhD, author of Cancer as a Metabolic Disease; Miriam Kalamian, EdM, MS, CNS, author of Keto for Cancer; and Beth Zupec Kania, consultant nutritionist of The Charlie Foundation.
  - Standard American Diet: Fat/Protein/Carb is 20-30/10-35/45-65
  - Ketogenic Diet: Fat/Protein/Carb is 78-86/8-12/2-6
  - Comparison and contrast of several diets: Atkins, Servan-Schreiber, Budwig, Gerson, vegan, Mediteranean, paleo
  - Recommends limiting keto proteins to 0.8 grams per kg of ideal body weight.  ( 85kg * 0.8g = 68g = 3 oz. )
  - Protein yields are not weights!  58g of chicken breast, 65g of ground beef, 65g of salmon, and 3 large eggs all yield 18g of protein. p. 206
  - Very nice list of resources as an appendix.
  
- **[Tripping over the Truth: How the Metabolic Theory of Cancer Is Overturning One of Medicine's Most Entrenched Paradigms](https://www.amazon.com/Tripping-over-Truth-Overturning-Entrenched/dp/160358935X/)**, by Travis Christofferson ( 4.7 / 1283 )
  - Different than the other books, this is a long story about the history of oncology:  how we got where we are.
  - Details chemo and how it works.
  - Writing is complex and in certain sections.  Still very interesting.
  - Central thread is the debate between SMT ( somatic mutation theory ) and failures in the body's metabolic system.
  - A chronology of Warburg, Seyfried, and others and how their work evolved over time.
  - There is no requirement for SMT or Genetic theories to be exclusivly 'right'.  They are probably interrelated.
  - Refers to 'Care Oncology Clinic', which supplements traditional med treatments.

### Reading Now

### To Order

- **[The Cancer Code: A Revolutionary New Understanding of a Medical Mystery](https://a.co/d/epBFEqO)**, by Jason Fung ( 4.8 / 2050 )

- **[Cancer as a Metabolic Disease: On the Origin, Management, and Prevention of Cancer](https://www.amazon.com/Cancer-Metabolic-Disease-Management-Prevention/dp/0470584920/)**, by Seyfried ( 4.6 / 309 )

- **[The Emporer of All Maladies](https://www.amazon.com/Emperor-All-Maladies-Biography-Cancer/dp/1439170916)**, by Siddhartha Mukherjee  ( 4.7 / 9400 )

### Finished

- **[12 Keys to a Healthier Cancer Patient: Unlocking Your Body's Incredible Ability to Heal Itself While Working with Your Doctor](https://www.amazon.com/Keys-Healthier-Cancer-Patient-Incredible/dp/0578564297/)**, by Patrick Quillin ( 4.6 / 100 )

- **[Eat to Beat Disease](https://www.amazon.com/Eat-Beat-Disease-Science-Itself/dp/1538714620/)**, by William Li ( 4.6 / 8600 )  
  - A decent referece on good general nutrition.  Some repeated material.
  - Includes the '5x5x5 framework' to get started and has plenty of recipes.

### Ordered

### Not Owned

- **[Fight Cancer with a Ketogenic Diet, by Ellen Davis](https://www.amazon.com/Fight-Cancer-Ketogenic-Diet-Third/dp/1943721033/)** ( 4.3 / 103 )

- **[Squeaky Clean Keto: Next Level Keto to Hack Your Health](https://www.amazon.com/Squeaky-Clean-Keto-Mellissa-Sevigny/dp/162860400X/)** ( 4.7 / 1250 )

- **[Clean Keto Lifestyle: The Complete Guide to Transforming Your Life & Health](https://www.amazon.com/Clean-Keto-Lifestyle-Complete-Transforming/dp/1641523255/)** ( 4.4 / 659 )

## People

Additionally, I would like to acknowledge the authors of several books on metabolic oncology that were very useful in guiding my thinking. These include Thomas Seyfried (Cancer as a Metabolic Disease), Otto Warburg (The Metabolism of Tumors), Jane McLelland (How to Starve Cancer), Travis Christofferson (Tripping over the Truth), and Nasha Winter and Jess Higgins
Kelley (The Metabolic Approach to Cancer: Integrating deep nutrition, the ketogenic diet, and nontoxic bio-individualized therapies). I am also grateful for groups like Anticancer Fund and the Repurposing Drugs in Oncology (ReDO) (Cancer-Care-2024-03-29-v1.pdf)

- [Dr. Patrick Quillin](https://gettinghealthier.com/dr-patrick-quillin-phd/)
Wrote the green nutrition book

- [James Clinic](https://jamesclinic.com/cancer/)
Alternative clinic. Ohio?

- [Chris Wark: Chris Beat Cancer](https://www.chrisbeatcancer.com/)

- [Dr. Seyfried](https://tomseyfried.com/)
  - Big into the glucose-keytone index ( GKI )
  - Wrote "The Gluecose Keytone Index Calculator: A Simple Tool to Monitor Therapeutic Efficasy fro Metabolic Management of Brain Cancer"
  - Wrote [Can the Mitochondrial Metabolic Theory Explain Better the
Origin and Management of Cancer than Can the Somatic
Mutation Theory?](files\metabolites-11-00572.pdf)
  - Wrote "Cancer as a Metabolic Disease: On the Origin, Management, and Prevention of Cancer"
  - Has a 'treatise' on mitochondrial and/or metabolic disease.  Find this!

## Videos and Podcasts

- Jerry Brunetti's 'Food as Medicine' talk from 2005.  Haven't watched it yet.
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cnxUsyLncuI> and <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IXH-A6Kpoho>

## Websites

### To Check Out

- FABNO: Amercian Board of Naturopathic Oncology
  
- [Healing Strong](https://healingstrong.org/)
  - From Tappan

- [The Moss Report](https://www.themossreport.com//)
  - On the Nasha Winters 'Metabolic Matters' podcast as a guest


### Reviewed

- [Believe Big](https://believebig.org)
  - Big on mistletoe
  - Big on spiritual healing
  - HQ is in Hunt Valley, MD
  - From Tappan

- [Care Oncology](https://careoncology.com/)
  - Supplementary treatment protocols, potentially including FenBen, Metformin, and the like
  - "Jane McLelland's Off-Label Drugs for Cancer"
  - _Surviving Termincal Cancer_ documentary by Dominick Hill.  Fought brain gioblatoma w/ off-label treatment.

- [Foundation for Metabolic Cancer Therapies](https://foundationformetaboliccancertherapies.com)
  - Started by Travis Christoferson, author of 'Tripping over the Truth'

- [Keto Calculator](https://keto-calculator.ankerl.com/)
  - Very good analysis of starting keto macros
  - For me:
    - 2248 kcal Daily Calorie Intake
    - 25 g Carbs (4%, 100 kcal)
    - 120 g Protein / 4.2 ounces (21%, 480 kcal)
    - 185 g Fat (75%, 1668 kcal)

- [Mr Lab Test](https://mrlabtest.com)
  - Very handy reference for each type of blood lab, and what to know about it being high or low.

- [Metabolic Terrain Institute of Health](https://www.mtih.org/)
  - Dr. Nasha Winters

- [Society for Integrative Oncology](https://integrativeonc.org/)
  - Big website. Seems like it's a professional society for docs more than a patient resource.
  
- [TedTalk on Music Therapy](https://youtu.be/NlY4yCsGKXU?si=qmQ50O3xSVSHBZdt)
  - Specifically talks about cancer, but applies to many situations and to anxiety in general.  This is my [Pandora Station](https://pandora.app.link/MluCFFUEeNb) that helped me get through some long hours.

- [Ketogenic Diet Resource - Ellen Davis](https://www.ketogenic-diet-resource.com/)

- [Nutrition in Cancer Care (PDQ®)–Health Professional Version](https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-effects/appetite-loss/nutrition-hp-pdq)

- [Neuroendocrine Cancer Awareness Network](https://netcancerawareness.org/nccn-guidelines/)
  - Seems lame and old. Too bad.

 ***

- <https://angio.org/>

- Good general-purpose website
<https://www.mdanderson.org/patients-family/life-after-cancer/long-term-effects.html>

- Kresser blog post talking about keto and fasting potential. "If I was diagnosed with cancer or one of my relatives or friends were diagnosed, I would certainly put the ketogenic diet and fasting at the top of the list of potential treatments to investigate because I see a high potential for benefit and very little downside"
<https://chriskresser.com/ketogenic-diet-and-cancer/>

## Events

### 2024 Metabolic Health Day ( Metabolic Health Institute )
- [2024 Metabolic Health Day](https://metabolic-health-day-2024.mn.co)
- https://metabolic-health-day-2024.mn.co/posts/educational-content-some-of-our-favorite-podcast-videos
 - Recommended Podcast Sessions
   - [Joe Rogan #2210 - Calley Means and Casey Means](https://youtu.be/G0lTyhvOeJs)
   - [Groundbreaking Cancer Expert: This common Food is Making Cancer Worse](https://youtu.be/VaVC3PAWqLk)
   - Huberman: What Alcohol does to your Body, Brain, and Health
   - [Fasting for Survival Leture by Dr. Pradip Jamnadas](https://www.youtube.com/embed/RuOvn4UqznU)
   - [Metabolic Approach to Midlife Health with Dr. Nasha Winters](https://youtu.be/ua30P3-eQ4Q)

Commit message:

Added Slocum quote on MCST.

resources.md, after:


# Resources

- [Resources](#resources)
  - [Books](#books)
    - [My Must-Reads](#my-must-reads)
    - [Reading Now](#reading-now)
    - [To Order](#to-order)
    - [Finished](#finished)
    - [Ordered](#ordered)
    - [Not Owned](#not-owned)
  - [People](#people)
  - [Videos and Podcasts](#videos-and-podcasts)
  - [Websites](#websites)
    - [To Check Out](#to-check-out)
    - [Reviewed](#reviewed)
  - [Events](#events)
    - [2024 Metabolic Health Day ( Metabolic Health Institute )](#2024-metabolic-health-day--metabolic-health-institute-)

## Books

### My Must-Reads

- **[Notes from the Valley: A Spiritual Travelogue through Cancer](https://www.amazon.com/Notes-Valley-Spiritual-Travelogue-through/dp/0802412548/)**, Andy McQuitty ( 4.7 / 60 )
  - Fundamentally important book about Christian understanding of mortality, suffering, and the Lord's will.

- **[Beating Cancer With Nutrition:  Using Nutrition and Other Modalities to Improve Quality and Quantity of Life for Medically Treated Cancer Patients](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1735234702/)**, by Patrick Quillin ( 4.6 / 144 )
  - Good references in end notes.  Tons of additional reading.
  - Wide coverage and easy to read in a layout similar to a textbook.
  - Very well organized and easy to refer back to.

- **[The Metabolic Approach to Cancer:  Integrating Deep Nutrition, the Ketogenic Diet, and Nontoxic Bio-Individualized Therapies](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1603586865/)**, by Winters and Kelley ( 4.7 / 1118 )
  - Deep and technical. Some bio-chemistry paragraphs.
  - Worth reading, but more work to read than Quillin's book.

- **[Keto for Cancer: Ketogenic Metabolic Therapy as a Targeted Nutritional Strategy](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1603587012/)**, by Miriam Kalamian EdM MS CNS ( 4.6 / 695 )
  - With a foreword by Dr. Dominic D'Agostino, PhD and contributions from Thomas Seyfried, PhD, author of Cancer as a Metabolic Disease; Miriam Kalamian, EdM, MS, CNS, author of Keto for Cancer; and Beth Zupec Kania, consultant nutritionist of The Charlie Foundation.
  - Standard American Diet: Fat/Protein/Carb is 20-30/10-35/45-65
  - Ketogenic Diet: Fat/Protein/Carb is 78-86/8-12/2-6
  - Comparison and contrast of several diets: Atkins, Servan-Schreiber, Budwig, Gerson, vegan, Mediteranean, paleo
  - Recommends limiting keto proteins to 0.8 grams per kg of ideal body weight.  ( 85kg * 0.8g = 68g = 3 oz. )
  - Protein yields are not weights!  58g of chicken breast, 65g of ground beef, 65g of salmon, and 3 large eggs all yield 18g of protein. p. 206
  - Very nice list of resources as an appendix.
  
- **[Tripping over the Truth: How the Metabolic Theory of Cancer Is Overturning One of Medicine's Most Entrenched Paradigms](https://www.amazon.com/Tripping-over-Truth-Overturning-Entrenched/dp/160358935X/)**, by Travis Christofferson ( 4.7 / 1283 )
  - Different than the other books, this is a long story about the history of oncology:  how we got where we are.
  - Details chemo and how it works.
  - Writing is complex and in certain sections.  Still very interesting.
  - Central thread is the debate between SMT ( somatic mutation theory ) and failures in the body's metabolic system.
  - A chronology of Warburg, Seyfried, and others and how their work evolved over time.
  - There is no requirement for SMT or Genetic theories to be exclusivly 'right'.  They are probably interrelated.
  - Refers to 'Care Oncology Clinic', which supplements traditional med treatments.
  - *"Slocum percolated with enthusiasm as he handed me a paper published in January 2016 by the ChemoThermia team detailing the experience using Metabolically Supported Chemotherapy ( MCST ) in pancreatic cancer. In their comparison of patients whoe had received the chemothereapy regiment known as FOLFIRINOX plus MCST to those who received FOLFIRINOX alonge, they found an improved median survival rate:  19.5 months in the patients receiving supplemental MCST therapy compared to 11.1 months in those receiving FOLFIRINOX alone. The one-year survival rate for those in the first group ( FOLFIRINOX plus MCST ) was 82.5 percent, compared to 48.4 percent in the second group ( FOLFIRINOX alone ), an amazing increas. Slocum also noted that 54 percent of the patnients included in this study remained healthy, alive, and free of disease progression at time of publication. "We will be rebublishing our results next year, and because so many patients are still alive our median survival is going to be over 20 months," marveled Slocum."*

### Reading Now

### To Order

- **[The Cancer Code: A Revolutionary New Understanding of a Medical Mystery](https://a.co/d/epBFEqO)**, by Jason Fung ( 4.8 / 2050 )

- **[Cancer as a Metabolic Disease: On the Origin, Management, and Prevention of Cancer](https://www.amazon.com/Cancer-Metabolic-Disease-Management-Prevention/dp/0470584920/)**, by Seyfried ( 4.6 / 309 )

- **[The Emporer of All Maladies](https://www.amazon.com/Emperor-All-Maladies-Biography-Cancer/dp/1439170916)**, by Siddhartha Mukherjee  ( 4.7 / 9400 )

### Finished

- **[12 Keys to a Healthier Cancer Patient: Unlocking Your Body's Incredible Ability to Heal Itself While Working with Your Doctor](https://www.amazon.com/Keys-Healthier-Cancer-Patient-Incredible/dp/0578564297/)**, by Patrick Quillin ( 4.6 / 100 )

- **[Eat to Beat Disease](https://www.amazon.com/Eat-Beat-Disease-Science-Itself/dp/1538714620/)**, by William Li ( 4.6 / 8600 )  
  - A decent referece on good general nutrition.  Some repeated material.
  - Includes the '5x5x5 framework' to get started and has plenty of recipes.

### Ordered

### Not Owned

- **[Fight Cancer with a Ketogenic Diet, by Ellen Davis](https://www.amazon.com/Fight-Cancer-Ketogenic-Diet-Third/dp/1943721033/)** ( 4.3 / 103 )

- **[Squeaky Clean Keto: Next Level Keto to Hack Your Health](https://www.amazon.com/Squeaky-Clean-Keto-Mellissa-Sevigny/dp/162860400X/)** ( 4.7 / 1250 )

- **[Clean Keto Lifestyle: The Complete Guide to Transforming Your Life & Health](https://www.amazon.com/Clean-Keto-Lifestyle-Complete-Transforming/dp/1641523255/)** ( 4.4 / 659 )

## People

Additionally, I would like to acknowledge the authors of several books on metabolic oncology that were very useful in guiding my thinking. These include Thomas Seyfried (Cancer as a Metabolic Disease), Otto Warburg (The Metabolism of Tumors), Jane McLelland (How to Starve Cancer), Travis Christofferson (Tripping over the Truth), and Nasha Winter and Jess Higgins
Kelley (The Metabolic Approach to Cancer: Integrating deep nutrition, the ketogenic diet, and nontoxic bio-individualized therapies). I am also grateful for groups like Anticancer Fund and the Repurposing Drugs in Oncology (ReDO) (Cancer-Care-2024-03-29-v1.pdf)

- [Dr. Patrick Quillin](https://gettinghealthier.com/dr-patrick-quillin-phd/)
Wrote the green nutrition book

- [James Clinic](https://jamesclinic.com/cancer/)
Alternative clinic. Ohio?

- [Chris Wark: Chris Beat Cancer](https://www.chrisbeatcancer.com/)

- [Dr. Seyfried](https://tomseyfried.com/)
  - Big into the glucose-keytone index ( GKI )
  - Wrote "The Gluecose Keytone Index Calculator: A Simple Tool to Monitor Therapeutic Efficasy fro Metabolic Management of Brain Cancer"
  - Wrote [Can the Mitochondrial Metabolic Theory Explain Better the
Origin and Management of Cancer than Can the Somatic
Mutation Theory?](files\metabolites-11-00572.pdf)
  - Wrote "Cancer as a Metabolic Disease: On the Origin, Management, and Prevention of Cancer"
  - Has a 'treatise' on mitochondrial and/or metabolic disease.  Find this!

## Videos and Podcasts

- Jerry Brunetti's 'Food as Medicine' talk from 2005.  Haven't watched it yet.
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cnxUsyLncuI> and <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IXH-A6Kpoho>

## Websites

### To Check Out

- FABNO: Amercian Board of Naturopathic Oncology
  
- [Healing Strong](https://healingstrong.org/)
  - From Tappan

- [The Moss Report](https://www.themossreport.com//)
  - On the Nasha Winters 'Metabolic Matters' podcast as a guest


### Reviewed

- [Believe Big](https://believebig.org)
  - Big on mistletoe
  - Big on spiritual healing
  - HQ is in Hunt Valley, MD
  - From Tappan

- [Care Oncology](https://careoncology.com/)
  - Supplementary treatment protocols, potentially including FenBen, Metformin, and the like
  - "Jane McLelland's Off-Label Drugs for Cancer"
  - _Surviving Termincal Cancer_ documentary by Dominick Hill.  Fought brain gioblatoma w/ off-label treatment.

- [Foundation for Metabolic Cancer Therapies](https://foundationformetaboliccancertherapies.com)
  - Started by Travis Christoferson, author of 'Tripping over the Truth'

- [Keto Calculator](https://keto-calculator.ankerl.com/)
  - Very good analysis of starting keto macros
  - For me:
    - 2248 kcal Daily Calorie Intake
    - 25 g Carbs (4%, 100 kcal)
    - 120 g Protein / 4.2 ounces (21%, 480 kcal)
    - 185 g Fat (75%, 1668 kcal)

- [Mr Lab Test](https://mrlabtest.com)
  - Very handy reference for each type of blood lab, and what to know about it being high or low.

- [Metabolic Terrain Institute of Health](https://www.mtih.org/)
  - Dr. Nasha Winters

- [Society for Integrative Oncology](https://integrativeonc.org/)
  - Big website. Seems like it's a professional society for docs more than a patient resource.
  
- [TedTalk on Music Therapy](https://youtu.be/NlY4yCsGKXU?si=qmQ50O3xSVSHBZdt)
  - Specifically talks about cancer, but applies to many situations and to anxiety in general.  This is my [Pandora Station](https://pandora.app.link/MluCFFUEeNb) that helped me get through some long hours.

- [Ketogenic Diet Resource - Ellen Davis](https://www.ketogenic-diet-resource.com/)

- [Nutrition in Cancer Care (PDQ®)–Health Professional Version](https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/side-effects/appetite-loss/nutrition-hp-pdq)

- [Neuroendocrine Cancer Awareness Network](https://netcancerawareness.org/nccn-guidelines/)
  - Seems lame and old. Too bad.

 ***

- <https://angio.org/>

- Good general-purpose website
<https://www.mdanderson.org/patients-family/life-after-cancer/long-term-effects.html>

- Kresser blog post talking about keto and fasting potential. "If I was diagnosed with cancer or one of my relatives or friends were diagnosed, I would certainly put the ketogenic diet and fasting at the top of the list of potential treatments to investigate because I see a high potential for benefit and very little downside"
<https://chriskresser.com/ketogenic-diet-and-cancer/>

## Events

### 2024 Metabolic Health Day ( Metabolic Health Institute )
- [2024 Metabolic Health Day](https://metabolic-health-day-2024.mn.co)
- https://metabolic-health-day-2024.mn.co/posts/educational-content-some-of-our-favorite-podcast-videos
 - Recommended Podcast Sessions
   - [Joe Rogan #2210 - Calley Means and Casey Means](https://youtu.be/G0lTyhvOeJs)
   - [Groundbreaking Cancer Expert: This common Food is Making Cancer Worse](https://youtu.be/VaVC3PAWqLk)
   - Huberman: What Alcohol does to your Body, Brain, and Health
   - [Fasting for Survival Leture by Dr. Pradip Jamnadas](https://www.youtube.com/embed/RuOvn4UqznU)
   - [Metabolic Approach to Midlife Health with Dr. Nasha Winters](https://youtu.be/ua30P3-eQ4Q)
